Refactored contributors guide (#19702)
backstage/backstage: docs/getting-started/contributors.md

Visit http://localhost:3000 and you should see the bleeding edge of Backstage
ready for contributions!

## Coding Guidelines

All code is formatted with `prettier` using the configuration in the repo. If possible we recommend configuring your editor to format automatically, but you can also use the `yarn prettier --write <file>` command to format files.

A consistent coding style is included via [EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/) with the file [`.editorconfig`](.editorconfig) at the root of the repo. Depending on your editor of choice, it will either support it out of the box or you can [download a plugin](https://editorconfig.org/#download) for the config to be applied.

If you're contributing to the backend or CLI tooling, be mindful of cross-platform support. [This](https://shapeshed.com/writing-cross-platform-node/) blog post is a good guide of what to keep in mind when writing cross-platform NodeJS.

Also be sure to skim through our [ADRs](docs/architecture-decisions) to see if they cover what you're working on. In particular [ADR006: Avoid React.FC and React.SFC](docs/architecture-decisions/adr006-avoid-react-fc.md) is one to look out for.

> If there are any updates in `markdown` file please make sure to run `yarn run lint:docs`. Though it is checked on `lint-staged`. It is required to install [vale](https://docs.errata.ai/vale/install) separately and make sure it is accessed by global command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are any updates in any Markdown files please make sure to run `yarn run lint:docs`. (Though it is also checked on `lint-staged` via the CI/CD pipeline.) It is required to install [Vale](https://docs.errata.ai/vale/install) separately and make sure it is accessed by global command.
```

Author: Ah so this isn't totally correct, `lint-staged` runs once just before the changes get committed to your branch, I've adjusted the wording to fit that so maybe take another look to make sure it seems reasonable 👍

### When to use a changeset?

Any time a patch, minor, or major change aligning to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org) is made to any published package in `packages/` or `plugins/`, a changeset should be used. It helps to align your change to the [Backstage package versioning policy](https://backstage.io/docs/overview/versioning-policy#package-versioning-policy) for the package you are changing, for example, when to provide additional clarity on deprecation or impacting changes which will then be included into CHANGELOGs.

In general, changesets are only needed for changes to packages within `packages/` or `plugins/` directories, and only for the packages that are not marked as `private`. Changesets are also not needed for changes that do not affect the published version of each package, for example changes to tests or in-line source code comments.

> Changesets **are** needed for new packages, as that is what triggers the package to be part of the next release.

Reviewer: i feel like somewhere in here we should note if you update the README we should get a changeset. i myself have questioned that before, and i think the prevailing feedback is usually we want any README update published to Npm's web site and thus a changeset is preferred?

Author: Yeah, I agree but it didn't get in as I'm not sure how to word it within what already exists, if you have some suggestions I'm happy to add them!

```text
Awesome description (commit message)

Signed-off-by: Jane Smith <jane.smith@example.com>
```

In case you forgot to add the line to your most recent commit, you can amend the commit message from the History tab before pushing your branch (GitHub Desktop 2.9 or later).

## API Reports

Backstage uses [API Extractor](https://api-extractor.com/) and TSDoc comments to generate API Reports in Markdown format. These reports are what drive the [API Reference documentation](https://backstage.io/docs/reference/). What this means is that if you are making changes to the API or adding a new plugin then you will need either generate a new API Report or update an existing API Report. If you don't do this the CI build will fail when you create your Pull Request.

There are two ways you can do this:

1. You can run `yarn build:api-reports` from the root of the project and it will go through all of the existing API Reports and update them or create new ones as needed. This may take a while but is generally the best method if you are new to this.

> 2. You can run `yarn build:api-reports plugins/<your-plugin-with-changes>` from the root and it will update the existing API Report or create a new one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You can run `yarn build:api-reports plugins/<your-plugin-with-changes>` from the root and it will update the existing API Report or create a new one.
```

Author: Fixed 👍
